Fix OAuth scope satisfaction to AND-of-ORs (required means required) (#2778)
github/github-mcp-server: docs/scope-filtering.md

WARN: failed to fetch token scopes, continuing without scope filtering
```

## Limitations and Fail-Open Posture

Scope filtering is a **best-effort UX convenience** for classic PATs (`ghp_`) only. It is **NOT an authorization boundary** — the GitHub API is the source of truth and enforces real permissions regardless of what the server shows. The server therefore **fails open**: when access is plausible but unprovable at filter/challenge time, the tool is shown rather than hidden.

A tool's declared scopes are **all required** (logical AND), and each one may be satisfied directly or by an ancestor scope from the [hierarchy](#scope-hierarchy). Some ways a tool can legitimately be used cannot be determined from OAuth scopes alone, so the scope model intentionally does not fully capture them:

> - **Public vs. private repositories.** Which scope suffices can depend on the target repository, which isn't known when tools are filtered. For example, code scanning alerts on **public** repos are readable with `public_repo`, while **private** repos need `security_events` (or `repo`).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Public vs. private repositories.** Which scope suffices can depend on the target repository, which isn't known when tools are filtered. Public repos are readable with the implicit `public_repo` scope all tokens have, while **private** repos need `security_events` or `repo`.
```

- **Sibling-OR alternatives.** `security_events` and `public_repo` are *siblings* under `repo` (not parent/child), so token hierarchy expansion can't treat one as satisfying the other. A `public_repo`-only token may therefore have the security tools (code scanning, secret scanning, Dependabot, security advisories) hidden even though it could read public-repo data.
- **Organization roles.** A *security manager* (or similar) org role grants access orthogonally to OAuth scopes and is invisible to scope filtering.
- **Other token types.** Fine-grained PATs, OAuth, and GitHub App tokens use different permission models; filtering is skipped for them entirely (gated to `ghp_`), which is fail-open by design.

> These cases are deferred to runtime API enforcement. If precise sibling-OR modeling is ever needed, the extension point is making the required scopes a list of OR-groups (AND across groups, OR within a group) — deliberately not built yet.

Author: ```suggestion
```

|---------|-------|----------|
| Missing expected tools | Token lacks required scope | [Edit your PAT's scopes](https://github.com/settings/tokens) in GitHub settings |
| All tools visible despite limited PAT | Scope detection failed | Check logs for warnings about scope fetching |

> | "Insufficient permissions" errors | Tool visible but scope insufficient | Expected in some cases (fail-open, public/private ambiguity, org roles, or scope detection skipped). The API enforces the real boundary—grant the needed scope or access |

Author: ```suggestion
| "Insufficient permissions" errors | Tool visible but scope insufficient | This shouldn't happen with scope filtering; report as bug |
```
